
game uses dice, cards and markers

dice used: each dice has a color
laser dice (red)

markers used: each marker has a color

conceptual tokens:
distance (purple) - lose 1 every time you progress towards the destination system

for captain stats:
age (gray) - gain 1 every time you reach a new system
bounty (red) - gain 1 for attacking non-criminal fleets
fame (blue) - gain 1 for completing any quest or destroying criminal fleets
credits (yellow) - in game currency


for ship stats:
hull (gray)
shields (purple)
fuel (yellow)

for cargo types:
air (white), water (blue), soil (brown), 
metal (gray), isotopes (yellow), antimatter (purple)
food (green), medicine (pink), nanites (cyan), 
weapons (red), stims (orange)


game "set" comes with the following types of decks.
note: the deck concept needs to be added. for each category i list below, we need a deck with one card per color/number combination.
ex: if red, blue and yellow are possible and 1-5 numbers are possible then we need 15 cards in that deck.
note2: each card may need some rules printed on it, to explain how it works to the player- but i'll get around to that later.

star cards: each star card represents a star of a given type. ex: black hole, red hypergiant, white dwarf, neutron star
star cards have a color (representing its color) and number (representing its mass). maybe between 1-5.
black holes should be purple (black not used in this game)

ship type cards: there are different ship types in the game, such as corvette, raider, battleship, destroyer, tanker, etc.
color is determined by the type.
the quality of the ship is represented by the number (1-5). quality is added to rolls involving that ship.
each has listed values for hull, base shields, lasers, engine, cargo space, fuel capacity (each usually between 1-5)
ships should be relatively balanced except for certain capital ships (for now, just battleship probably)

ship upgrade cards: these improve ships.
the color is based on the type: hull, shields, lasers, engine, cargo space, fuel capacity
the number is the amount by which the ship is improved.

ship module cards: these give ships special abilities.
the color is based on the type: cloaking field, radar... maybe others later.
the number is the power of the module.

fleet cards: these represent different npc fleets. 
the number represents the number of ships in that fleet (generally 1-5).
each has a listed faction which determines the color.
pirates, red. merchants, yellow. police, blue. (for now, will add more later)

space hazard cards: these represent dangers that the player can run into in any region of space.
each has a type - ex: meteors, gas clouds
the number represents the level of danger (1-5).
the color is determined by the type.

planetary hazard cards: like the above, but apply to planet surfaces.
example types: earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, storms

orbital hazard cards: like the above, but apply to planet near-orbit distance
example types: magnetic storms, radiation belts, debris, 

stellar hazard cards: like the above, but apply to star near-orbit distance
example types: solar flares, gravitational pull, 

deep space anomaly cards: these represent unique, risky opportunities the player can run into.
each has a type: abandoned ship, rogue planet, wormhole, interstellar fauna, etc.
the number represents the risk/reward of the anomaly.

planetary anomaly cards: like the above, but apply to planet surfaces.
types include: alien ruins, cave system, native fauna, native flora

orbital anomaly cards: like the above, but apply to planet near-orbit distances.
types include: rings, major moon,

stellar anomaly cards: like the above, but apply to star near-orbit distances
types include: exotic matter, plasma, 

planet cards: these represent planets that can exist at star systems.
each has a type - ex: rocky, gaseous, icy, crystal, lava, earthlike, oceanic, desert, etc.
the color is determined by type and the size determined by the number (1-5)

officer cards: officers that can possibly join the player.
each has a color, representing his role: navigator, gunner, scientist, trader, engineer, doctor, etc.
the number represents the officer's skill (1-5)

perk cards: these can be attached to officers to give them special abilities.
color is based on the type: leadership... will add more later. leadership lets you hire 1 more officer per rank.
level is 1-5.

building cards: these are places the player can visit to use services.
number is 1-5, the quality of the building 
color = type. marketplace, shipyard, courthouse, guild, etc.

planetary settlement cards. can be visited by the player to engage in various activities.
1-5 number represents the development level of the settlement (# of buildings).
color represents the type: scientific, trading post, military outpost, etc.

space station cards. space stations provide unique services not found on planets.
1-5 number represents the service level of the station.
color represents the type: educational, gambling, paradise, religious

civilization cards: these represent a civilization that could colonize a star system.
the color is the type (each representing a different species, like humanity, robots, tyranid-likes, etc)
and the number is the strength of that civilization (in number of fleets)


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

unique decks - these dont follow the same rule of having "1 card per possible combination", instead they're more random
and have a large number of cards. and have unique names per card.


sector cards: these represent regions of space the player can travel through.
the number determines how large the sector is (LY/time needed to cross it) 1-5
each sector has a total # of space hazards, anomalies, fleets, and stations

star system cards: each one has a title of the star system, up to 5 stars. the size/color/type of each star is specified.
the color of the card is based on the largest (primary) star.
each system has a size, which forms the number of the card, similar to sector cards.
each system also has a total # of planets (1-15). 
and a total # of space hazards, stellar hazards


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

meta rules

at game start, the player receives the following:
any lvl 1 ship he wants (other than battleship, maybe)
any lvl 1 officer card he wants (captain)
[maybe] any lvl 1 perk card he wants.

a randomly drawn sector card, representing the current region of space.
a randomly drawn star system card, representing the destination.
a randomly drawn civilization card, representing the civ that owns that star system

--
the objective of the game is to travel to 10 different star systems and survive with a high score.
more on score later.

~~~~~~~~~~

gameplay



game is played in phases

phase 1 - deep space travel

this is when the player is traveling through a sector.
first add a number of distance tokens equivalent to the size of the sector.

when player first starts travelling, draw a number of space hazard, deep space anomaly, fleet and station cards
to match the # specified by the sector, to comprise the "travel cards" for that sector

during each travel juncture, blind shuffle the travel cards for that sector
and draw the first card to see what the player encounters for each point in the journey.
afterward that card is discarded and next card becomes the next point in the journey.
remove 1 distance token to show that distance was travelled.
if distance is 0, then AFTER the encounter, the player arrives at his destination.

phase 2 - travel through a system

similar to above, draw a number of space hazard, stellar hazard, planet and star cards based on the system
and a # of fleet cards based on the civilization
note: the star cards must be specifically drawn to match what was on the system card.
to form the "travel cards"
add a number of distance tokens based on the number on the system card.

similar to travel in deep space, blind shuffle the travel cards for that sector
and draw the first card to see what the player encounters for that AU
afterward that card is discarded and next card becomes the next point in the journey.
remove 1 distance token afterward.
if distance is 0, then AFTER the enocunter, the player exists the


phase 3 - docked at a planet

phase 4 - choosing a new destination




day - days since game start

you have a ship, which can hold 10/10 of the following things initially
air - 1 is consumed per day
water - same as above, 2x more valuable than air
food - same as above, 3x more valuable than water
metal - doesnt do anything useful on its own but is 4x more valuable than food
soil - ???
hull - condition of your spaceship. if it reaches 0, you die
fuel - can be used to activate thrusters and escape from bad situations

you start the game in deep space headed towards a star system, which is represented by
distance - number of days to your destination system (starts at 5)

each day traveling in space you get an encounter or random event

example events
meteorites - your ship is near meteorites flying through deep space
you can try to harvest them - risks hull, may yield some metal
you can try to pilot through them - risks hull, but less than harvesting
you can try to avoid them entirely - risks adding distance

need similar events for icy bodies (yields water instead of metal) and gas clouds (yields gas)


when you reach a star system, it has a random number of stars (1-3) and planets (1-15)
planets can be: gas giant, gas dwarf, ice giant, ice dwarf, rock giant, rock dwarf

the player is using a solar sail so his movement is unidirectional based on galactic currents. 
he can visit up to 33% (rounded up) of the planets in a system before departing it, each planet is a hop.
he gets a random selection of 3 planets he can choose to visit during each "hop"

planets have a 50% chance to be inhabited.
if inhabited, they have a 50% chance of each of the following buildings
market - allows buying/selling goods (water, food, metal, gas) for credits
-each market has a set number of each good at the start (0-50), and can "run out"
dock - allows repairing hull for credits and refueling for credits.
-each dock has a certain amount of metal and fuel (25-100), cannot repair/refuel above that amount

at uninhabited planets, player can harvest resources
depending on the planet type, this will yield more air, water, fuel, metal or rarely food (planet must have life, 10% chance)

planets can have ocean types - none, water, hydrocarbon (effecting the resource types)
and surface types - rocky, crystalline, 


when leaving the system, you can choose from 3 new destination systems
each is between 3-10 distance away and you can see what planets it has and the amount of each type

