ok, generation ship
KODP meets seedship

the idea - you fly through space, going from system to system and planet to planet.
during this process, you have to make meaningful choices to help your generation ship survive and thrive.
usually the choices have a moral or philosophical flavor and have lasting effects (and are recorded)
the population, technology, culture, etc - basically the mini-society on the ship - evolves based on your choices and some RNG.

you can, at any time, settle down on a planet and try to colonize it.
your success depends on the planet/system you're in, as well as the overall state of your generation ship.

note - success is cool and all, but it's also interesting to shoot for different endings and types of societies.
to encourage variety, during playthroughs you'll get random bonuses, items, schematics, etc that encourage the player to try settling
different types of planets/systems.

game should be somewhat incremental and not bombard the player with all its mechanics early on


other things you can do in the game:
-raid or take captives from planets you encounter if they're weaker than you
-conquer a planet instead of colonizing it if it has weaker inhabitants
-find a new flora/fauna species (interstellar or planetary) and interact with it
-uncover alien relics, trade them, or just keep them and enjoy the benefits (with research/study)
-unlock new technologies and deal with (form policies around) the resulting social consequences
-promote, designate councillors and deal with their occasional infighting/maneuvering for power
-choose a system of government (or let the people decide), which lets you manage your ship/crew/council differently
-deal with revolts, opposition parties, terror, crime, riots, etc.
-meet other ships and trade, fight, raid, share news, flee, ignore, etc.
-explore uncivilized planets and collect resources, check for relics, catalog new scientific data
-meet intelligent species at different levels of development and interact with them
-upgrade your ship's systems and facilities - everything from life support to weapons to hydroponics
-collect resources like cargo, drones, attack ships, shuttles, crew members, etc.
-visit space stations in deep space and hear news from around the galaxy, take on misssions
-learn about the major species/factions in the galaxy, their conflicts and wars and alliances, and participate in them
-encounter new religions, spread that religion, visit holy sites, engage in religious council events
-discover ancient alien ruins and explore them, high risk and high reward

the stats

population - 
 you don't want this to get too large or it'll overwhelm the ship's life support capacity/lead to crowding.
 but if its too low you may end up with genetic defects, and not have enough manpower to effectively colonize.

morale -
 too low and the ship is in danger of mutiny, terrorism, strikes, etc.
 too high and the ship's population becomes militant and overzealous.

stability - 
 crews can have low morale but high stability if you're ruling through fear.
 too high and innovation slows down, reports get fabricated etc. too low and revolt starts happening.

reserves - food, air, water, metal, soil, nanites
 too low and you can't survive periods of scarcity or miss opportunities.
 too high and it leads to resentment from poorer citizens.

illicit cargo: weapons, drugs, antimatter -
 like reserves, but more risky to carry (police dont like it, can cause crime on ship)

credits - 
 too low and you can't trade much with other ships.
 too high and it leads to wealthy oligarchs and resentment.

religion balance - 
 there should be major religions with different characteristics

culture - basically follows the 8values model with each stat being a spectrum
 collectivism vs individualism
 identitarianism vs universalism
 liberty vs authority
 tradition vs innovation
 religion vs secularism

politics - the governing systems of the ship
economic system: free exchange, socialism, central planning, oligarchy, etc
labor system: serfdom, caste system, emancipation
legal system: bureaucracy, totalitarianism, liberalism
governing system: republic, democracy

species balance:
 humans
 metahumans
 cyborgs
 androids
 
policies: specific decision points that your ship's citizens made
 AI policy: AI chauvinism, AI equality, AI integration, human chauvinism, AI banned
 genetic modification: encouraged, permitted, regulated, outlawed
 etc.

features: additions to the ship that have positive effects and/or drawbacks
 AI Overseer
 Cloning vats
 Cryogenic chambers
 etc.

profession balance: each profession is useful at different times.
however, being too heavily weighted can lead to that profession having
outsized influence and interfering with the player's moves.
 officers - the bureaucracy and leadership of the ship
 pilots - help navigate the ship and do dogfights when needed
 soldiers - responsible for policing the ship and repelling threats
 scientists - research and development, robotics, genetics, etc.
 miners - extracting resources from the environment
 engineers - fixing and upgrading the ship
 doctors - keeping the crew healthy and fit
 merchants - responsible for internal and external trade/commerce/finance
 artists - keeps the crew entertained and happy
 laborers - the inevitable menial, drudge work

councillers - 
 each should have skills, a preferred religion/political system, age, etc.
 and a profession.. gender.. species.. like kodp.
 councillors make your crew/ship more effective but have upkeep (credits)

facilities - 
 things like cargo bays, medbay, machine shop etc. you can upgrade them over time.
 these make your actions more effective, or unlock new ones, but have upkeep.
 
faction relationships-
 merchants, pirates, police, etc.

relics-
 ancient alien tech with mysterious effects (pros and cons)

~~~~~~~~~~

game play

obviously random events/choices should factor in

obviously should spend a lot of time flying through space, exploring planets

deep space travel periods will be nice to just make choices involving the ship
-although they'll still have moral implications re: factions, etc.

but there should also be KODP style stat management - ex: choose how many kids
to train in each profession (or to just weight a few)

